Vitiligo is a medical condition
in which areas of the skin
become depigmented,
which means they lighten
or turn completely white.
Hair can also become prematurely white or gray.
The color of our eyes, skin, and hair
is determined by a pigment called melanin,
which is produced by cells
called melanocytes.
In vitiligo, melanocytes die
or are destroyed by cells
from the body’s immune system.
As the melanocytes die,
patches of skin turn white
because the melanocytes
are no longer making melanin.
Vitiligo affects people of all races,
but can be especially noticeable
in those with darker skin.
It can develop anywhere on the body,
but often starts on the face,
hands, arms, and feet.
There may be only a few light spots,
or widespread loss of skin color.
There is no way to predict
how much it will spread.
Sometimes vitiligo stops on its own.
In other cases,
loss of pigment continues until
it affects most of the skin surface.